Add documentation of deployment statuses (#424)
chocolatey/docs: input/en-us/central-management/usage/website/deployments.md

  - en-us/central-management/usage/deployments
---

## Description

> Central Management's Deployments functionality allows for pre-defined actions to be executed across any Chocolatey-managed computers.

Author: fixed

> Central Management's Deployments functionality allows for pre-defined actions to be executed across any Chocolatey-managed computers.

Author: fixed

>
> This is a Work in Progress. Please check back later.
>

> > Please see <https://blog.chocolatey.org/2020/05/announcing-deployments/> for now.

Reviewer: These `<` and `>` are not needed.

Author: Removed this section in (maint) Remove WIP status commit since this points to an old blog post from the release of CCM 0.3.0 that references QDE and when we first launched deployment. Feel it's better to remove entirely as the package is now up to date.

Deployments that are currently in progress will be in this state.

### Completed

Deployments that have finished running will enter the `Completed` state. They will list their status depending on how the run went.

### Archived

> Deployments that are in a completed state can also be `Archived` to hide them from the main Deployments screen.

Author: thx, fixed.

> Deployments that are in a completed state can also be `Archived` to hide them from the main Deployments screen.

Author: Thx. Fixed

This is helpful if you'd like to reduce clutter on the main deployments screen without discarding the information the completed report contains.

You can access archived deployments from the `Reports -> Deployments` page in the left sidebar of the Chocolatey Central Management dashboard.

> ## Deployment Statuses

Author: Took a stab at defining deployment state. As well as mentioning and linking to deployment statuses to differentiate them from states. Lastly explained that it all flows the same as the workflow show in the deployments tab of the CCM dashboard. 

Fully open to alternative ways/review of explaining this concept as i'll be honest, it's a bit difficult.

This is a list of all the statuses that a deployment step or whole deployment can report as. They are listed in order of processing order as a new deployment runs.

### Ready

> This deployment status is presented once a deployment enters the active state. It is now waiting for the next agent check-in to grab the deployment from Chocolatey Central Management.

Author: fixed

### Unreachable

> This deployment status is reported when a deployment is queued up in Chocolatey Central Management. But the client machine agent is unable to receive or accept the deployment. This is usually the status given when a deployment step or whole deployment reaches its execution timeout. This can be a client or sever side error. It's best to check both the `central-management-service.log` file on the server as well as the `chocolatey-agent.log` file on the client to investigate if you receive this status.

Author: fixed

### Active

This deployment status is given once the agent on the client machine accepts the deployment from Chocolatey Central Management. It then begins processing the deployment and also reports back to Chocolatey Central Management that is has started this deployment step.

### Inconclusive

> This deployment status is reported when a deployment step has gone to active, but Chocolatey Central Management doesn't get a reply back as to the status of the deployment step running on the client machine. It is best to look at the `chocolatey-agent.log` file from the client machine as to why it was not able to report back to Chocolatey Central Management.

Author: fixed

### Cancelled

> This status is reported anytime a deployment step or deployment as a whole is manually cancelled by someone.

Author: fixed

### Success

> This deployment status indicates the step completed and reported back as successful.

Author: fixed

### Failed

> This deployment status indicates the deployment failed for some reason. You can click the `View Log` button on the individual deployment step to get more data as why the failure may have occurred.

Author: fixed

### Unknown

> This status is reported when a deployment step or deployment as a whole cannot be interpreted by Chocolatey Central Management and placed into one of the other statuses. This should only happen in the case of a bug. If you get this status please reach out to us via the means listed when running `choco support`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a catch-all status when a Deployment step or whole Deployment does not the criteria to fit one of the other statuses. If you get this status please reach out to us via the means listed when running `choco support`.
```

## FAQ

### What versions of components do I need for Deployments to work properly?

While you might be able to get things to work with Chocolatey Central Management v0.2.x and Chocolatey Agent v0.10.x, it's best to use the following:

* Chocolatey Central Management components (`chocolatey-management-*` all 3 packages) - v0.3.0+

> * Chocolatey Agents (`chocolatey-agent` package on all clients) - v0.11.0+

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Chocolatey Agent (`chocolatey-agent` package on all clients) - v0.11.0+
```

Author: fixed

* Chocolatey Licensed Extension (`chocolatey.extension` on all clients) - v2.1.1+

### What is the Chocolatey Central Management compatibility matrix?

> Chocolatey Central Management(CCM) has specific compatibility requirements with quite a few moving parts. It is important to understand that there are some Chocolatey Agent versions that may not be able to communicate with some versions of CCM and vice versa.  Please see the [Chocolatey Central Management Component Compatibility Matrix](xref:central-management#ccm-component-compatibility-matrix) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chocolatey Central Management has specific compatibility requirements with quite a few moving parts. It is important to understand that there are some Chocolatey Agent versions that may not be able to communicate with some versions of Chocolatey Central Management and vice versa.  Please see the [Chocolatey Central Management Component Compatibility Matrix](xref:central-management#ccm-component-compatibility-matrix) for details.
```

Reviewer: Because we always used the full name, using CCM in this one sentence wasn't consistent. So I thought I'd mention it.

Author: fixed

### Why do I see some machines have not opted in for Deployments?

> If you are on the Groups screen, you may notice that some machines show up highlighted with a coloring, and one of those colorings is an orange - the legend below it mentions "Not Opted In For Deployments (Configuration)".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are on the Groups screen, you may notice that some machines show up highlighted with an orange color. The legend below it mentions "Not Opted In For Deployments (Configuration)".
```

Author: fixed

You can access archived deployments from the `Reports -> Deployments` page in the left sidebar of the CCM dashboard.

## Deployment Statuses

This is a list of all the statuses that a deployment step or whole deployment can report as. They are listed in order of processing order as a new deployment runs.

### Ready

> This deployment status is presented once a deployment enters the active state. It is now waiting for the next agent check-in to grab the deployment from CCM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This deployment status is presented once a deployment enters the active state. It is now waiting for the next agent check-in to grab the deployment from Chocolatey Central Management.
```

### Unreachable

This deployment status is reported when a deployment is queued up in Central Management. But the client machine agent is unable to receive to accept the deployment. This is usually the status given when a deployment step or whole deployment reaches its execution timeout. This can be a client or sever side error. It's best to check both the central-management-service.log file on the server as well as the chocolatey-agent.log file on the client to investigate if you receive this status.

### Active

> This deployment status is given once the agent on the client machine accepts the deployment from CCM. It then begins processing the deployment and also reports back to Central Management that is has started this deployment step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This deployment status is given once the agent on the client machine accepts the deployment from Chocolatey Central Management. It then begins processing the deployment and also reports back to Chocolatey Central Management that is has started this deployment step.
```

### Inconclusive

> This deployment status is reported when a deployment step has gone to active, but Central Management doesn't get a reply back as to the status of the deployment step running on the client machine. It is best to look at the chocolatey-agent.log file from the client machine as to why it was not able to report back to Central Management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This deployment status is reported when a deployment step has gone to active, but Chocolatey Central Management doesn't get a reply back as to the status of the deployment step running on the client machine. It is best to look at the `chocolatey-agent.log` file from the client machine as to why it was not able to report back to Chocolatey Central Management.
```

### Cancelled

This status is reported anytime a deployment step or deployment as a whole is manually cancelled by someone.

### Success

This deployment status indicates the step completed and reported back as successful.

### Failed

This deployment status indicates the deployment failed for some reason. You can click the `View Log` button on the individual deployment step to get more data as why the failure may have occurred.

### Unknown

> This status is reported when a deployment step or deployment as a whole cannot be interpreted by Central Management and placed into one of the other statuses. This should only happen in the case of a bug. If you get this status please reach out to us via the means listed when running `choco support`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This status is reported when a deployment step or deployment as a whole cannot be interpreted by Chocolatey Central Management and placed into one of the other statuses. This should only happen in the case of a bug. If you get this status please reach out to us via the means listed when running `choco support`.
```

### I have plenty of licenses, why do some machines show not opted in for deployments and also exceeds your current license count?

Once you upgrade to at least Chocolatey Central Management v0.2.0, every machine will show that until they check in the next time. Once they check in, that will go away. So it's basically normal to see that until those machines check in again.

### Can I use Chocolatey Deployments to upgrade Chocolatey Central Management based components?

> Likely you absolutely can, just keep in mind that there may be a specific ordering in how you would upgrade everything and adhere to that order. In some instances, you may need to upgrade agents first, then Chocolatey Central Management(CCM) components as once CCM is upgraded it may not be able to talk to the agents. However agents will stop being able to talk to CCM for a small period of time while you are upgrading CCM, but then things will start working again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Likely you absolutely can, just keep in mind that there may be a specific ordering in how you would upgrade everything and adhere to that order. In some instances, you may need to upgrade agents first, then Chocolatey Central Management components as once CCM is upgraded it may not be able to talk to the agents. However agents will stop being able to talk to Chocolatey Central Management for a small period of time while you are upgrading it, but then things will start working again.
```

Reviewer: @gep13 I don't think this is something we recommend or have tested? 

@ryanrichter94 has this been tested?

Author: Fixed with links to chocolatey-agent upgrade via CCM deployment and CCM itself upgrade documentation links.

> ### What Happens if More Than One Deployment is "Active" at the Same Time?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### What happens if more than one Deployment is "Active" at the same time?
```

Reviewer: Can you check the other headings? Either use Title case or don't. We just need to ensure we are consistent.

Author: Capitalized all heading according to APA writing style using https://capitalizemytitle.com/style/APA/#

This will depend a little bit on the version of Chocolatey Central Management you're running.
Prior to v0.4.0, control of deployments was handled entirely on a per-deployment-_step_ basis.
This means that if you have an active deployment with some of the computers in it idling (waiting for a later step in the deployment to begin, essentially), these machines will pick up available deployment steps from an unrelated deployment while they're waiting.

> As of v0.4.0 of Chocolatey Central Management, this has been fine tuned a little bit so that any computer which is acted on by a deployment will not pick up any steps from unrelated deployments until all its assigned steps in the first deployment are completed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of v0.4.0 of Chocolatey Central Management, this has been fine tuned so that any client machine that runs a Deployment will not pick up any steps from unrelated Deployments until all its assigned steps in the first Deployment are completed.
```

Author: fixed

Let's say `Deployment A` is started first, and `Deployment B` starts while `Deployment A` is in either step 1 or step 2.
When `Deployment A` reaches step 2, even though `Computer A` is not currently running any deployment steps, it will not start running steps from `Deployment B` because it still has a task to do in `Deployment A`.
If you are running Chocolatey Central Management 0.3.x, `Computer A` will instead pick up and run the step from `Deployment B` despite `Deployment A` still being in progress.

> ### Why do My Computers or Groups Show as Ineligible for Deployments While They're Opted In?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Why do my Computers or Groups show as Ineligible for Deployments while they're opted in?
```

Author: fixed when styling all titles to APA Title Case.

>   * If the deployment is scheduled, it will not run until all computers/groups are eligible again.
>   * If the deployment is not scheduled, it cannot be started until all computers/groups are eligible again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * If the Deployment is scheduled, it will not run until all computers/groups are eligible again.
  * If the Deployment is not scheduled, it cannot be started until all computers/groups are eligible again.
```

Author: fixed

>   Once Chocolatey Central Management has confirmed the problem computer(s)/group(s) are eligible again, the deployment can be started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Once Chocolatey Central Management has confirmed the problem computer(s)/group(s) are eligible again, the Deployment can be started.
```

Author: fixed

  If the deployment was previously scheduled and it has not passed the maintenance window time (if set), it will start at that point.
* For deployments that are currently `Active`

>   * As soon as Chocolatey Central Management detects the ineligible computer, it will terminate the current deployment step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * As soon as Chocolatey Central Management detects the ineligible computer, it will terminate the current Deployment step.
```

Author: fixed

>   * Then, all following deployment steps will be `Cancelled`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Then, all following Deployment steps will be `Cancelled`.
```

Author: fixed

> ### How Can I Run Deployments in a Semi-Connected Environment?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How can I run Deployments in a semi-connected environment?
```

Author: fixed part of titles.

> As of Chocolatey Central Management(CCM) v0.4.0, you are able to configure deployments to tolerate semi-connected environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of Chocolatey Central Management v0.4.0, you are able to configure deployments to tolerate semi-connected environments.
```

Author: fixed

> This effectively allows CCM deployments to simply wait until a machine is connected to the network before it begins a given deployment step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This effectively allows Chocolatey Central Management Deployments to simply wait until a machine is connected to the network before it begins a given Deployment step.
```

Author: fixed

> ### A computer or group is not showing as available for deployments but I have plenty of available licenses

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### A computer or group is not showing as available for Deployments but I have plenty of available licenses
```

Author: title fixed

Once you upgrade to Chocolatey Central Management v0.3.0+, you have upgraded the Agent on the machine to v0.11.0+, and it has successfully completed a check in, then that messaging should go away. Note that clients do not get a message back that there was a failure as a security feature - you'll need to consult the Central Management Service logs. You can find that at `$env:ChocolateyInstall\logs\ccm-service.log`, or if you are on a version of Chocolatey Central Management prior to 0.2.0, the log will be located at `$env:ChocolateyInstall\lib\chocolatey-management-service\tools\service\logs\chocolatey.service.host.log`.

> ### Using `choco` commands in a script deployment break if semicolons are used to separate the statements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Using `choco` commands in a Script Deployment breaks if semicolons are used to separate the statements
```

Author: title fixed
